---
layout: step
title:  Reading Variables in Python
prev:   05-exposing-variables.html
next:   07-attaching-sensors.html
---

In this section we will Python and the spyrk library to read variables from our
Spark Cores.

{% include api-docs.md %}

We will be using the open source spyrk library to read data from our Spark Cores
through the Spark Cloud.  The source code for spyrk as well as installation
instructions is available over at

- [https://github.com/Alidron/spyrk](https://github.com/Alidron/spyrk)

The installation instructions assume that you are familiar using pip (a package
manager for python).  Ask for help from an organizer or checkout the official
pip documentation on how to install it

- [https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html](https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/installing.html)

## Some Notes About Spyrk

Most of spyrk's operations are blocking which means the thread you are executing in
will wait until the HTTP request to retrieve the data before continuing.  If you
are developing time sensitive systems it my be a good idea to look into using multiple
threads to speed up execution... However how to do that is out of the scope of
this workshop.

## Using Spyrk

Spyrk provides several abstractions around the Spark API.  These abstractions make
it very easy to interact with the Spark Cloud API in a very pythonic fashion.

### Connecting To The Spark Cloud

Before we can access any data from the Spark Cloud we first need to create an
instance of the `SparkCloud` class (found in the `spyrk` package).  Below is a
simple example of how to achieve this

    from spyrk import SparkCloud

    connection = SparkCloud(ACCESS_TOKEN)

### List Devices

Now that we have our connection accessing our Spark Devices is as simple as
accessing the `devices` attribute on our connection.

    # connection initialized from above

    for device_id in connection.devices:
        print(device_id)

Listing available devices isn't extremely useful.  Before we can actually access
variables on our Spark(s) we need to get an instance of our device.  We can do that
by accessing the `connection.devices` attribute as if it were a `dict` and using
the `device_id` we got in our last example as a key.

    device = connection.devices[device_id]

### List Variables

Now that we've gotten our device we can get a list of variables that we've exposed
in step [04 (Exposing Variables)](04-exposing-variables.html).  To do this we can
simply access the attribute `variables` on our device like so

    variables = device.variables
    variable_names = variables.keys() # get the names of the variables

### Get Variable's Value

Now it's time to read a variable that we exposed from our Spark in Python.  Doing
this is very simple.  Our variables can be read by accessing the attribute of the
name of our variable on our device object

    # lets pretend we exposed a variable named foo on our spark
    foo = device.foo

Or if we want to get all of the variables from our spark and place them into a
dictionary we can do the following

    # this is why I defined variable_keys earlier
    my_spark_vars = {}
    for key in variable_keys:
        my_spark_vars[key] = getattr(device, key)

### Putting It All Together

Here is the code for everything we've done so far in this section

    from spyrk import SparkCloud

    connection = SparkCloud(ACCESS_TOKEN)

    for device_id in connection.devices:
        device = connection.devices[device_id]

        variables = device.variables
        variable_names = variables.keys()

        my_spark_vars = {}
        for key in variable_keys:
            my_spark_vars[key] = getattr(device, key)

        # my_spark_vars how has the values for all of the variables we exposed
        # from our Spark

## Lets Make Those Variables Interesting

Okay so now we can read variables from our Spark.  That isn't too interesting
since those variables don't mean much yet.  Now lets hook up a sensor to our
Spark Core so that we can get live readings from it!

